---
layout: post
title:  " When Nothing Goes as Planned"
date:   2017-09-01 17:41:08 +0000
---


I am sitting at my desk attempting to both write a blog and a grocery list at the same time.  Forgive me if anywhere in my text appears any ingredients or cleaning supplies like pizza and laundry detergant.  Two items that actually need to be added.  Ofcourse, groceries aren't the only thing on my mind.  This week is the week before school starts back up for my kids.  I have been buying school supplies, finding out bus times, class schedules, finding backpacks, figuring out and buying clothes for a super-skinny petite daughter and a son who outgrows clothes faster than I can buy them.  This is part of my job.  Except for a brief stint as an administrative assistant at a community art center, I have been a stay-at-home-mom (SAHM) for almost nine years.  
I never wanted to be a SAHM.  I like people too much, and being a SAHM can be very lonely and frustrating.  I was going to be a librarian, hopefully a Special Collections Librarian.  I worked as a student aide at Shawnee State University Library in the Technical Services Department my sophomore year of college, and then for Miami University Library in Special Collections my senior year.  After graduation, I worked, for a year, as a library assistant for the Public Library of Cincinnati and Hamilton County, Forest Park Branch.  Then returned to Miami University with a full-time position as a Senior Program Associate in the Technical Services Department of Miami University.  I had been accepted to two different library schience programs, but ultimately selected Drexel University's Masters of Library Science because my kids were little and I could do the program online.
I did quit my job at Miami.  At that point, working full-time, going to school part-time, having two little kids, a house, and a husband, it was all too much.  My entire paycheck went to daycare.  It was more expensive for me to work then to stay home.
I thought everything would be fine.  I was in a library science program.  I had experience working in libraries.  I would only be staying home for a few years, and then I would have a better paying job once I finished my MLS.
Two quarters before i graduated, Ted Strickland (governor) cut the budgets to public libraries and universities.  He also put a tuition cap on Ohio universities.  Librarians were being fired.  The job market was flooded with more experienced librarians.  I couldn't get a job.  I couldn't even get an intervies.
Then the eye surgeries began.  For the next two years, I had approximately nine eye surgeries.  There were times when my vision was unstable.  
After that came Isaac.  Isaac was born with a substantial partial duplication of chromosome five.  He looked perfect on the outside, but was a mess on the inside.  The pregnancy was a nightmare.  Isaac and I were treated like problems.  I was made to be on bed rest at Good Samaritan Hospital for six weeks. After the birth, he survived for six days at Cincinnati Children's Hospital.  
Needless to say, I am not a librarian.  Other than repairing books for my kid's teachers, and occasionally having lunch with my librarian friends at Miami University, I am not a librarian.  
How did I decide to do web development.  I was driving to my short-lived admin job last fall, and the radio dj's started discussing job's that people reported as being satisfying.  App designer was at the top of the list.  Web development makes sense.  Drexel's Masters of Library Science is closely related to a Masters of Information Science. Because of this, I had already had classes in web design, database development, SQL, information organization, and metadata.  I began looking for methods online for getting a job that could be an actual well paying career.  I was looking up app design and web development, and started coming across different bootcamp programs.  The very next week my mom called to tell me she had heard about Flatiron on one of those morning shows.  I hadn't told her that I was already looking into those type of programs.  On a whim, I did the free Javascript program through Flatiron.  I enrolled.  That is how I decided to become a web developer, when my plans did not work out.

